README.md, before:

[![Stories in Ready](https://badge.waffle.io/annotationsatharvard/catcha.png?label=ready&title=Ready)](https://waffle.io/annotationsatharvard/catcha)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/annotationsatharvard/catcha.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/annotationsatharvard/catcha)
[![Documentation Status](https://readthedocs.org/projects/catcha/badge/?version=latest)](http://catcha.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest)

catcha
======

Catching Annotation (Catch-A)

This software was created for the Harvard Library Labs project CATCH (https://osc.hul.harvard.edu/liblab/proj/catch) awarded to Phil Desenne, Martin Schreiner and Paolo Ciccarese

The software was originally written by:
* Dr. Paolo Ciccarese http://paolociccarese.info
* Justin Miranda https://github.com/jmiranda

You can find the core plugin dependencies at [https://github.com/annotationframework](https://github.com/annotationframework).

# Getting Started

## Developer Installation

### Install dependencies
* GVM - http://gvmtool.net/
* Grails 2.2.1+
* Tomcat 6+
* MySQL 5.5+

#### Install GVM
See http://gvmtool.net/
```
$ curl -s get.gvmtool.net | bash
```

#### Install Grails
After downloading the source code check `catcha/Catch/application.properties` to find the required Grails version.
```
app.grails.version=2.2.1
```

To install the appropriate grails version:
```
$ gvm install grails 2.2.1
```

#### MySQL 
See http://dev.mysql.com/downloads/installer/. On Ubuntu 
```
sudo apt-get install mysql-server
```

### Build application from source 

#### Download application source code
```
$ git clone https://github.com/annotationsatharvard/catcha.git
```

#### Download plugin source code
There are several plugins that are included as "local plugin" dependencies within the application's `BuildConfig.groovy`. It's important that the root directory of these plugins (`annotationframework`) is located at the same level as the `catcha` directory.  
```
$ mkdir annotationframework
$ cd annotationframework
$ git clone https://github.com/annotationframework/AfPersistence.git
$ git clone https://github.com/annotationframework/AfSecurity.git
$ git clone https://github.com/annotationframework/AfShared.git
```

##### Create database 
```
mysql -u root -p -e 'create database catch default charset utf8;'
```
##### Create database user 
```
mysql -u root -p -e 'grant all on catch.* to "catch"@"localhost" identified by "<password>";'
```

##### Create external configuration file 
If you changed the database name, username, or password you need to edit an external configuration file.

NOTE: I needed to rename the file (lowercase 'c') in order to get the application to read this file.
```
$ cd Catch
$ mv Catch-config.properties catch-config.properties
```

Add the following properties to `catcha/Catch/catch-config.properties`.
```
# Database connection settings
dataSource.url=jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/catch?autoReconnect=true&zeroDateTimeBehavior=convertToNull&sessionVariables=storage_engine=InnoDB
dataSource.username=catch
dataSource.password=<password>
```

NOTE: Do NOT change the database name as there is a bug I just discovered in the Liquibase changesets that hard-codes the schema name to "catch" when dealing with foreign key contstraints.

### Run application in development mode
```
$ grails run-app
```


## Run with Docker

### Start application

```
docker-compose up -d
```

Docker will download official MySQL image and build catcha image. Docker-compose will create a docker network and run both images. Once they are started, the application can be accessed at http://localhost:8080.

### Stop application

```
docker-compose stop
```

### Tear down application

```
docker-compose down
```

Commit message:

Update dockerfile to build the war file
This change makes possible to build the docker image automatically on
DockerHub for each push. It also enables to run the image both in
development mode and production mode (default).

Also update the docker-compose and README

README.md, after:

[![Stories in Ready](https://badge.waffle.io/annotationsatharvard/catcha.png?label=ready&title=Ready)](https://waffle.io/annotationsatharvard/catcha)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/annotationsatharvard/catcha.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/annotationsatharvard/catcha)
[![Documentation Status](https://readthedocs.org/projects/catcha/badge/?version=latest)](http://catcha.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest)

catcha
======

Catching Annotation (Catch-A)

This software was created for the Harvard Library Labs project CATCH (https://osc.hul.harvard.edu/liblab/proj/catch) awarded to Phil Desenne, Martin Schreiner and Paolo Ciccarese

The software was originally written by:
* Dr. Paolo Ciccarese http://paolociccarese.info
* Justin Miranda https://github.com/jmiranda

You can find the core plugin dependencies at [https://github.com/annotationframework](https://github.com/annotationframework).

# Getting Started

## Developer Installation

### Install dependencies
* GVM - http://gvmtool.net/
* Grails 2.2.1+
* Tomcat 6+
* MySQL 5.5+

#### Install GVM
See http://gvmtool.net/
```
$ curl -s get.gvmtool.net | bash
```

#### Install Grails
After downloading the source code check `catcha/Catch/application.properties` to find the required Grails version.
```
app.grails.version=2.2.1
```

To install the appropriate grails version:
```
$ gvm install grails 2.2.1
```

#### MySQL 
See http://dev.mysql.com/downloads/installer/. On Ubuntu 
```
sudo apt-get install mysql-server
```

### Build application from source 

#### Download application source code
```
$ git clone https://github.com/annotationsatharvard/catcha.git
```

#### Download plugin source code
There are several plugins that are included as "local plugin" dependencies within the application's `BuildConfig.groovy`. It's important that the root directory of these plugins (`annotationframework`) is located at the same level as the `catcha` directory.  
```
$ mkdir annotationframework
$ cd annotationframework
$ git clone https://github.com/annotationframework/AfPersistence.git
$ git clone https://github.com/annotationframework/AfSecurity.git
$ git clone https://github.com/annotationframework/AfShared.git
```

##### Create database 
```
mysql -u root -p -e 'create database catch default charset utf8;'
```
##### Create database user 
```
mysql -u root -p -e 'grant all on catch.* to "catch"@"localhost" identified by "<password>";'
```

##### Create external configuration file 
If you changed the database name, username, or password you need to edit an external configuration file.

NOTE: I needed to rename the file (lowercase 'c') in order to get the application to read this file.
```
$ cd Catch
$ mv Catch-config.properties catch-config.properties
```

Add the following properties to `catcha/Catch/catch-config.properties`.
```
# Database connection settings
dataSource.url=jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/catch?autoReconnect=true&zeroDateTimeBehavior=convertToNull&sessionVariables=storage_engine=InnoDB
dataSource.username=catch
dataSource.password=<password>
```

NOTE: Do NOT change the database name as there is a bug I just discovered in the Liquibase changesets that hard-codes the schema name to "catch" when dealing with foreign key contstraints.

### Run application in development mode
```
$ grails run-app
```


## Develop with Docker

When developing with Docker, all the dependencies are included in docker images. No need to install anything on the host other than (docker)[https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation/]

NOTE: This repo has submodules. If `--recursive` is not specified when cloning the repo, you need to run `git submodule update --init` to pull down the submodules.

### Update configruation

Update the following line in `catch-config.properties`:

```
dataSource.url=jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/catch_test?useUnicode=yes&characterEncoding=UTF-8&autoReconnect=true
```
To
```
dataSource.url=jdbc:mysql://db:3306/catch?useUnicode=yes&characterEncoding=UTF-8&autoReconnect=true
```

### Start application

```
docker-compose up -d
```

Docker will download official MySQL image and build catcha image. Docker-compose will create a docker network and run both images. Once they are started, the application can be accessed at http://localhost:8080.

Once the docker containers are running, you can make changes to the files on the host and they will be auto-reloaded.

### Check logs

```
docker logs -f catch_app_1
```

### Stop application

```
docker-compose stop
```

### Tear down application

```
docker-compose down
```
